---
title: The Day's Run
layout: post
---

Today is Thursday. That means running day. To be honest, when I first remembered that today was a planned running day, I didn't feel like doing it. But having my skipping routine at hand soon changes things. I skipped for a total of ten minutes, doing five minutes warm-up and ten minutes of interval skipping - one minute skipping, one minute break running on the spot.

After a warm-up it's not difficult to convince myself to go for a run. Also, the limited distance I'm running definitely helps; anyone can run 700m. But you never know what'll happen on the road. I got out (threw out the trash while I was headed out) and ran. This time, instead of looking at my feet to see how I landed, I focused on keeping my upper body straight and my gaze level, looking at the end of the road that is my turning point. My calves started to tense up much faster than I thought, but the process was slower. Last time I ran, my calves tensed up a little more than half-way back, but that time they did so immediately. Today was more like a growing tension that started earlier but never grew as severe as it was on "Tuesday":{% post_url 2013-01-08-running-2 %}. Another key point was that I read that running barefoot, one should be running as if one was running on the spot. It should feel like the feet are hitting the ground just beneath the body (and not in front of it), and one's focus should be on lifting the legs, not placing the foot in front.

Interestingly, I achieved both: I had the sensation that my feet where hitting the ground just beneath me and it really helped focusing on lifting the legs. Things went so well that when I reached the 700m mark (the house), I turned around and ran back to the school and home again. This last bit of distance I had figured earlier to be around 180m, roughly totalling 300m, giving a nice round kilometer for the entire day. But I was wrong. The distance is about 250m, which made me wonder--what's the total distance then? The distance from the house to the school is shorter than from the school to Bloor st (the turning point), so I can't just have been running 700m before. Looking at the map, the distance from the house to the turning point is 650m, meaning that the trip on Tuesday was 1300m: 1.3km. And today I added another half of a kilometer to that.

All in all I need to learn how to read my maps, but I'm not disappointed, rather relieved, because I was running more than I thought.
