---
title: Reflections on Skipping
layout: post
---

I just skipped rope for eleven plus one minute, meaning I set a timer for eleven minutes and subsequently one for 1 minute. The last minute was as intense as I could get it.

One of the things I've discovered is that I'm not very good at skipping. I make a lot of mistakes, stepping on the rope, landing before the rope comes around. Basically the entire operation goes out of sync pretty fast. On average (so far) I'd say I stop at least ten times within ten minutes. Add up the time for each tiny pause it introduces, let's say 4-6 seconds to be pessimistic, it totals 40-60 seconds of non-skipping time in the eleven minutes. So the total time of _actual_ skipping is probably closer to ten minutes.

All things being equal, this is still the beginning and I've definitely felt a slight improvement in both technique and endurance. Today I didn't sweat as much as usual and despite my calves howling at me, they warmed up to the task and I was able to do some high knee lifts in the skipping.

Also the shoulder area is pretty tense after ten minutes of skipping, especially after powering through one minute. And my heart beats like crazy. So all is well, I think.

I look forward to the day where I can skip ten minutes and not be completely sore the next day.

On a side note; I also did the Day 3 (of week 1) workout of the "Hundred Pushups":http://hundredpushups.com/week1.html (the third column) totalling 11-15-9-9 and maxed 15 in the end. This totals 59 pushups. One of the reasons I like this challenge is that when you tally up the number of pushups in a single day, you end up doing quite a few, which is extremely satisfying and motivating. I want to pick up this challenge again, but I'm not a big fan of the website, so maybe I should move the information somewhere else.
