---
layout: post
title: From the Rust Book of IO
category: rust
tags: [en,rust,io,stdio]
---

This little gem showed up while perusing the Rust source code (@src/libstd/io/stdio.rs@):

bc.. And so begins the tale of acquiring a uv handle to a stdio stream on all
platforms in all situations. Our story begins by splitting the world into two
categories, windows and unix. Then one day the creators of unix said let
there be redirection! And henceforth there was redirection away from the
console for standard I/O streams.

After this day, the world split into four factions:

1. Unix with stdout on a terminal.
2. Unix with stdout redirected.
3. Windows with stdout on a terminal.
4. Windows with stdout redirected.

Many years passed, and then one day the nation of libuv decided to unify this
world. After months of toiling, uv created three ideas: TTY, Pipe, File.
These three ideas propagated throughout the lands and the four great factions
decided to settle among them.

The groups of 1, 2, and 3 all worked very hard towards the idea of TTY. Upon
doing so, they even enhanced themselves further then their Pipe/File
brethren, becoming the dominant powers.

The group of 4, however, decided to work independently. They abandoned the
common TTY belief throughout, and even abandoned the fledgling Pipe belief.
The members of the 4th faction decided to only align themselves with File.

tl;dr; TTY works on everything but when windows stdout is redirected, in that
        case pipe also doesn't work, but magically file does!

p. I especially like that the TL;DR is located at the bottom.

Credit: From what @git blame@ tells me, the above quote was authored by "Alex Crichton":https://github.com/alexcrichton
